==Vampires==
There's a new Steam patch which should fix the issue of the sun burning you at night. This was a "stealth hotfix", meaning that the version number is still the same as the last update (so we didn't have to take the server offline). If you don't see a Steam patch and are still burning at night, restart Steam to see the patch.

==Update Notes: March 25, 2026==
This one's mostly bug-bashing, and some proto-localization setup work.

===Player-Created Translations: First Steps===
Thank-you to those of you who've been talking with us about supporting player-created translations! We have the first step of those plans in this update: the game can support player-made translations (via a "side-loading" process for now), and some of the game's text is exposed for translation. The instructions for creating your own language pack are at https://cdn.projectgorgon.com . Let's communicate about this over discord -- I'll create a new thread.

Only a small part of the game's text is currently exported for translation. We focused on often-repeated text like skill names, item descriptions, quests, and so on. In future updates we'll need to export all the UI text, tons of NPC dialog, and strings for all the game's weird systems. There's a lot more to do, but we're excited to get your feedback on this first iteration.

===Fixes and Changes===
:- fix match-3 icons for certain fish
:- Character Models: Fix reversal of opacities for makeup and lipstick
:- Character Models: eyebrows are now actually what you chose at character creation
:- Fix bug causing environmental lighting to change 5-60 seconds after entering a new zone
:- Fix Grim Jim's quest pt 4 - he now actually needs a Trophy Hippo Hide
:- Fix typo on Michael Irasce's description
:- Cynthia Rolfe actually sells the swill she mentions selling
:- added priest prodigy training altar
:- Fix bright pink mirror in Statehelm
:- Fix wrong icon numbers for Mycotoxin Formula & Acid Bomb
:- Fix sprint speed and duration for Bounding Escape 7 & 8
:- new source of potash can be obtained from muck in Povus
:- the quest to become a werewolf now requires that you don't die before finishing it. (Prevents zerging the wolves, proving your worthiness)
:- integrate new Vidaria music from Connor Brace
:- change to Unity version 6000.3.11f1  (a new minor version with bugfixes)
:- Fix ''yet another'' instance of desyncing
:- Remove some stuck-in-rock mobs in Serbule, Eltibule, Ilmari, and Phantom Ilmari
:- Fix some pathing issues in Ilmari & Phantom Ilmari
:- Fix some floating objects in Serbule & Eltibule
:- Fix some occlusion issues in Serbule
:- Fix all-white buildings in Vidaria
:- Kalaba's fire no longer burns you when you're on the nearby stairs
:- Battle Chemistry golems can now actually use all of their high-level abilities
:- The Quest Log UI's hangout timer is now accurate
:- Fix Glajur's quest "Necromancy Goblets"
:- Fix Irkima's hangout "Cover for Irkima..."
:- The books in the Nonfiction Writing Table are once again alphabetized
:- Revision of biomes in Statehelm and Eltibule
:- Fix shader issues causing loss of performance when shadows were enabled
:- make Bottle of Brine easier to click on
:- increased the combat refresh potency (amount of health/armor/power restored) by organic armor by a whopping 25%
:- Rebeccah the Whisperer has a new favor which teaches you a new way to get soda ash.
:- Fix broken thunder sounds
:- Fix an issue causing performance slowdown in dungeons
:- It's been broken a while, but the in-game moon once again visually represents the current real-world moon phase
:- Ability "Stake the Heart 2" and higher now stun incorporeal entities (like ghosts) as well as corporeal undead
:- Rakshasa fire mages deal less fire DoT damage per tick with their regular attacks, making it easier to fully nullify the DoT with resistance buffs/potions
:- You can only bake 5 loaves of bread at a time (instead of infinite amounts)
:- some new item icons
:- Unora Veilmoor now has item preferences for favor
:- Fixed training unlock typos on Grim Jim and Sam Veilmoor
:- Slightly increased the number of spawned Errana Eggs for the egg hunt
:- Changes to Garden Invasion event
::- You no longer need to return to Sie Antry to complete the quest, allowing players to spread out to more gardens in the world easier
::- The cooldown for Sie Antry's quest increased to 6 hours, previously 3 hours
::- You now earn 1 Live Event Credit for EACH completion of Sie Antry's quest
:- fixed overzealous respawn rates for a few bosses
:- fixed timing issue with Dreadfin Absolum event in Statehelm (a/k/a the ranalon event)
:- Fix overlapping text in Battle Chemistry golem training options
:- Improve handling of dynamic text lengths in the training UI
:- Add lights to some particularly dark spots in Rahu
:- Various and plentiful adjustments to the sky
:- Revision to weather visuals
:- normalized monsters' chances to "become vulnerable" based on species. Now all monsters can become vulnerable, with the exception of gadgets and mechanisms (like energy crystals or turrets)
::- some monsters, such as ghosts, previously could not Become Vulnerable at all, but now can
:- standing in the casino fighting pit enables PvP as before, and also: increases Max Health x10000% (but doesn't heal you), grants 25% direct damage resistance, regenerates 10% of your health/armor/power every 5 seconds in combat, disables jumping, and disables flying. (We're just experimenting with ways to make arena PvP more entertaining. Let us know what you think. Should it give more resistance? Probably.)
:- Fransesca Muradrake now has item preferences for favor and proper favor requirements for training
:- Sir Fisk now has item preferences for favor and proper favor requirements for training

'''[[Game updates|Click here to return to the Game Updates page.]]'''
[[Category:Game updates]]