==November 8th, 2014==
Letter to players!

'''Update delayed:''' Sigh...I'm very sorry to disappoint, but this damned dungeon is not behaving me. It will be a few more days! We'll launch it in the middle of this week. There are too many missing bits right now, and I don't want the first impression of the dungeon to be crappy. Because it's a fun dungeon...or will be!

A note about this next dungeon -- it's designed for a trio of players with skills in the high 40s. This particular dungeon takes place in the Fae Nexus, a twisty realm between worlds, where the temperature has been magically controlled so that many different kinds of creatures can coexist. Cold and Fire attacks are not as effective here, so if you're a Fire Mage, you'll want to have your second skill prepared as backup!

By the way: please be careful not to overspecialize your character! It's hard for me to show how detrimental this will be until more content is in, but there will be lots of times and places where certain skills don't cut it. The game really is designed so that you'll NEED both combat skills leveled up, with viable equipment, especially at high level, and especially in dungeons. I'm going to try to add content that helps show this, so you get a less-skewed impression of the skills.

Fire Magic in particular seems WAY more versatile than it is in the full game. For instance, almost everything in the desert is heart-resistant, and they aren't especially hurt by cold either. (Deserts get super cold at night.) The Fire Magic skill even mentions that a lot of things are resistant to it. But so far, I haven't added content that's resistant to it, and instead I've added lots of mobs that are WEAK to fire, so it's easy to think Fire is the ultimate combat element and you'll never need a back up plan. But you will!

ALSO: please send feedback! Actually, I'd really appreciate it if you could take a minute to send two feedback messages: let me know what is working for you (what's convincing you to log in again? How can it be even better?) and also what's frustrating you the most (what made you hesitant to log in today? What's the most important thing to fix?). I use your feedback to prioritize changes, but recently the amount of feedback has been very low.

But remember that I'm just a guy here, doing my best, and I do know there are lots of frustrating things in the game. I'm fixing them as quickly as I can, so please don't take my head off! I just need to know what is MOST frustrating, so I can prioritize, not all 999999 things be that need fixing all at once. And knowing what you find FUN is also really important. I've been known to "tweak" non-broken things because I didn't realize they were working for people. Feedback me!

Thanks!

And sorry for the delay.

[[Category: Game updates]]